v1.2: Delete and get documents by filter (#2421)
meilisearch/documentation: reference/api/documents.mdx

[Learn more about documents.](/learn/core_concepts/documents)

> ## Get documents with POST

Reviewer: Following the same logic as with the search references, to not confuse the user we might just call it `Get Documents` and not add POST.

Author: There are two endpoints: 
- Get documents with GET
- Get documents with POST

Since both allow users to do the same thing(almost): get all documents or get some documents based on a filter, we decided to go with the same heading names: Get documents with GET/POST.

Reviewer: In the search references, there is `search` and `search with GET`.

Since we want to promote Get Documents with POST as the default value, adding `POST` may be confusing for a user that does not understand HTTP methods.

Author: >In the search references, there is search and search with GET.

It's search with GET and search with POST, same as here.

>Since we want to promote get Documents with POST as the default value, adding POST may be confusing for a user that does not understand HTTP methods.

About promoting POST: I added it to the top and added a warning under the GET route, saying it will be deprecated in the future so use the POST rooute

Not knowing about HTTP verbs: I'm assuming users would have some idea. If they don't, we have the warning that says we recommend using POST instead of GET

Reviewer: My bad, I did not see the search with POST one!

[Learn more about documents.](/learn/core_concepts/documents)

## Get documents with POST

<RouteHighlighter method="POST" route="/indexes/{index_uid}/documents/fetch"/>

Get a set of documents.

> Using `offset` and `limit`, you can browse through all your documents.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we can leave "through all your", but imperative is better here.

```suggestion
Use `offset` and `limit` to browse through documents.
```

<Capsule intent="note">
Sending an empty payload (`--data-binary '{}'`) will return all documents in the index.
</Capsule>

### Response

| Name          | Type    | Description                            |
| :------------ | :------ | :------------------------------------- |
| **`results`** | Array   | An array of documents                  |
| **`offset`**  | Integer | Number of documents skipped            |
| **`limit`**   | Integer | Number of documents returned           |
| **`total`**   | Integer | Total number of documents in the index |

### Example

<CodeSamples id="get_documents_post_1" />

#### Response: `200 Ok`

```json
{
  "results":[
    {
      "title":"The Travels of Ibn Battuta",
      "genres":[
        "Travel",
        "Adventure"
      ],
      "language":"English",
      "rating":4.5
    },
    {
      "title":"Pride and Prejudice",
      "genres":[
        "Classics",
        "Fiction",
        "Romance",
        "Literature"
      ],
      "language":"English",
      "rating":4
    },
    …
  ],
  "offset":0,
  "limit":3,
  "total":5
}
```

## Get documents with GET

<Capsule intent="danger">

> We recommend using POST `/indexes/{index_uid}/documents/fetch` as this endpoint will be deprecated in the near future.

Reviewer 2: Let's reword this so we don't use "we".

Author: Is there a reason for not using it? We use it in [warning boxes](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/reference/api/settings#:~:text=the%20returned%20documents.-,WARNING,-Updating%20distinct%20attributes) in the settings API reference

Reviewer 2: I thought we had agreed to slowly reduce usage of first person (singular and plural) across our docs. Other companies, like Microsoft, advise [avoiding whenever possible](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/grammar/person#avoid-plural-first-person-we-us).

It's also good practice, as rephrasing "we recommend [doing X]" often results in the text being more to the point:

> We recommend that you change your password
vs
> Change your password 

> We recommend that you use the default schedule setting to keep your software up to date.
vs
> Keep your software up to date with the default schedule setting.

> We recommend using POST `/indexes/{index_uid}/documents/fetch` as this endpoint will be deprecated in the near future.
vs
> This endpoint will be deprecated in the near future. Consider using `/indexes/{index_uid}/documents/fetch` instead.
or even
> Meilisearch will deprecate this endpoint in the near future. Use `/indexes/{index_uid}/documents/fetch` instead.

Get a set of documents.

Using the query parameters `offset` and `limit`, you can browse through all your documents. `filter` will not work without first explicitly adding attributes to the [`filterableAttributes` list](/reference/api/settingss#update-filterable-attributes). [Learn more about filters in our dedicated guide.](/learn/advanced/filtering#filter-basics)

<Capsule intent="note">
Sending an empty payload (`--data-binary '{}'`) will return all documents in the index.
</Capsule>

### Path parameters

| Name              | Type   | Description                                                            |
| :---------------- | :----- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`index_uid`** * | String | [`uid`](/learn/core_concepts/indexes#index-uid) of the requested index |

### Query parameters

| Query Parameter | Default Value | Description                                                                                              |
| :-------------- | :------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **`offset`**    | `0`           | Number of documents to skip                                                                              |
> | **`limit`**     | `20`          | Number of documents to return                                                                            |
> | **`fields`**    | `*`           | Document attributes to show (case-sensitive, comma-separated)                                            |
> | **`filter`**    | N/A           | An array of array of strings for refining results based on attributes in the `filterableAttributes` list |

Author: ```suggestion
| **`offset`**    | `0`           | Number of documents to skip                                                                              |
| **`limit`**     | `20`          | Number of documents to return                                                                            |
| **`filter`**    | N/A           | An array of array of strings for refining results based on attributes in the `filterableAttributes` list |
```

```json
{
  "results":[
    {
      "id":364,
      "title":"Batman Returns",
      "overview":"While Batman deals with a deformed man calling himself the Penguin, an employee of a corrupt businessman transforms into the Catwoman.",
      "genres":[
        "Action",
        "Fantasy"
      ],
      "poster":"https://image.tmdb.org/t/p/w500/jKBjeXM7iBBV9UkUcOXx3m7FSHY.jpg",
      "release_date":708912000
    },
    {
      "id":13851,
      "title":"Batman: Gotham Knight",
      "overview":"A collection of key events mark Bruce Wayne's life as he journeys from beginner to Dark Knight.",
      "genres":[
        "Animation",
        "Action",
        "Adventure"
      ],
      "poster":"https://image.tmdb.org/t/p/w500/f3xUrqo7yEiU0guk2Ua3Znqiw6S.jpg",
      "release_date":1215475200
    }
  ],
  "offset":0,
  "limit":2,
  "total":5403

> }

Reviewer 2: Why are we removing the space between `:` and value? Have we decided on this recently?

Taking a quick look at other JSON blocks in other pages (geosearch, filtering, distinct attribute), it seems we  always use that space.

Author: Good catch! I'll fix it

To completely overwrite a document, check out the [add or replace documents route](/reference/api/documents#add-or-replace-documents).

<Capsule intent="note">

> Meilisearch orders documents in the order they were inserted into the database.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add a short sentence describing why this is important?

Author: @irevoire 
Do you have anything on this?

Reviewer 3: Huum, no, it's not important, I just noticed a sentence was wrong in the spec and fixed it, but actually, it doesn't really have anything to do with the initial PR :sweat: 
I don't think we should document it

Author: I'll remove it then. Thanks!

You can use this `taskUid` to get more details on [the status of the task](/reference/api/tasks#get-one-task).

> ## Delete documents by filter

Reviewer: Why not just call it `Delete documents` ? It does not exist yet and I suppose we want to promote that route as the default route to delete documents

Author: We have an endpoint called "Delete all documents". It might be confusing for the users if we have "Delete documents" and "Delete all documents". "Delete documents by filter" is more specific so sounded like a better option

Reviewer: For me `Delete Documents` and `Delete all documents` are clearly distinguishable from each other. But it's your call :)

Author: Sorry, I forgot to add this before. We have four delete documents routes:
- Delete all documents
- Delete one document
- Delete documents by filter
- Delete documents by batch

If we didn't have the delete by batch route, "Delete documents" would have worked.

<RouteHighlighter method="POST" route="/indexes/{index_uid}/documents/delete"/>

Delete a selection of documents based on a filter.

### Path parameters

| Name              | Type   | Description                                                            |
| :---------------- | :----- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`index_uid`** * | String | [`uid`](/learn/core_concepts/indexes#index-uid) of the requested index |

### Body

> A filter expression written as a string or array of array of strings for the documents to be deleted. `filter` will not work without first explicitly adding attributes to the [`filterableAttributes` list](/reference/api/settings#update-filterable-attributes). [Learn more about filters in our dedicated guide.](/learn/advanced/filtering#filter-basics)

Reviewer 3: it would be nice if we could put a big emphasis on the fact that **you absolutely need** to make your fields filterable.
Like a warning panel or something.
One user already missed the info, and @brunoocasali was also afraid of it, so I guess it could be good to ensure no one misses it.

Author: We could put it in yellow warning boxes 🤔

You can use this `taskUid` to get more details on [the status of the task](/reference/api/tasks#get-one-task).

## Delete documents by filter

<RouteHighlighter method="POST" route="/indexes/{index_uid}/documents/delete"/>

> Delete a selection of documents based on a filter.

Reviewer 2: Not a fan of "selection of documents". I'm struggling to justify it, but it feels off here.

```suggestion
Delete a set of documents based on a filter.
```

### Path parameters

| Name              | Type   | Description                                                            |
| :---------------- | :----- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`index_uid`** * | String | [`uid`](/learn/core_concepts/indexes#index-uid) of the requested index |

### Body

> A filter expression written as a string or array of array of strings for the documents to be deleted.

Reviewer 2: "string or array of array of strings"

is there a repeated "array of" here?

Author: >is there a repeated "array of" here?

Yes. It's `string` or `array of array of strings`

<Capsule intent="warning">
`filter` will not work without first explicitly adding attributes to the [`filterableAttributes` list](/reference/api/settingss#update-filterable-attributes). [Learn more about filters in our dedicated guide.](/learn/advanced/filtering#filter-basics)
</Capsule>

```
 "filter": "rating > 3.5"
```

<Capsule intent="warning">
Sending an empty payload (`--data-binary '{}'`) will return a `bad_request` error.
</Capsule>

### Example

<CodeSamples id="delete_documents_by_filter_1" />

#### Response: `202 Accepted`

```json
{
    "taskUid": 1,
    "indexUid": "movies",
    "status": "enqueued",
    "type": "documentDeletion",
    "enqueuedAt": "2023-05-15T08:38:48.024551Z"
}
```

You can use this `taskUid` to get more details on [the status of the task](/reference/api/tasks#get-one-task).

## Delete documents by batch

<Capsule intent="danger">

> We recommend using POST `/indexes/{index_uid}/documents/delete` as this endpoint will be deprecated in the near future.

Reviewer 2: Same as the other comment, rewrite without first person.

</Capsule>

<RouteHighlighter method="POST" route="/indexes/{index_uid}/documents/delete-batch"/>

> Delete a selection of documents based on an array of document ids.

Reviewer 2: Only accept this if you accept the other one too.

```suggestion
Delete a set of documents based on an array of document ids.
```
